# Welcome
The purpose of this page is to share the basic knowledge required to operate the SPARCED model. We do not intend for this page to be a comprehensive guide to the SPARCED model. Instead, we hope this will serve as a self-contained roadmap for future Clemson University Creative Inquiry (C.I.) students to familiarize themselves with the model efficiently and begin to run SPARCED simulations independently.
#  Pan cancer <h6> 
To entirely understand what the SPARCED model is, it is best learn what it came from.  This would be the PAN cancer model.  The official paper can be found [here](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5886578/).  This is a mechanistic model of Cancer in a MCF10A cell, which is a non-tumorigenic epithelial cell line.  The model is an "integrated system of ordinary differential equations"  which was coded in MATLAB, and buttressed by CVODES, a software library that aids with the solving of ordinary differential equations.  Now how will a simulation help further our understanding of cancer?  Well, the claim is that this "model mechanistically interprets context-specific landscapes between driver pathways and cell fates, providing a framework for designing more rational cancer combination therapy.”  So data can be collected from designed situations, a revolutionary advancement.  We can be prepared for an event that has not yet occurred.  Normally a real person has to have cancer for data to be collected, which has lots of constraints.  
 How is the sparced model laid out <h6> The design is heirachical.  It is a large model made of many smaller models, one from many.  This allows for incremental improvements, until the model is as comprehensive as it needs to be.  
